docs/pages/database-access/guides/cockroachdb-self-hosted.mdx, before:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted CockroachDB
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with self-hosted CockroachDB.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="8.0"
>
  CockroachDB support is available starting from Teleport `8.0`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

1. Install Teleport and connect it to a CockroachDB cluster.
2. Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your CockroachDB cluster.
3. Connect to your CockroachDB cluster via Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- Teleport version `(=teleport.version=)` or higher.
- CockroachDB cluster. Start a single or a multi-node local cluster in
  [Docker](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.1/start-a-local-cluster-in-docker-mac.html)
  if you don't have one.

## Step 1/3. Install and configure Teleport

### Set up Teleport Auth and Proxy Services

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

### Set up Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Self-Hosted" scope={["enterprise","oss"]}>
Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the address of your Teleport Proxy Service:

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
  --name=roach \
  --protocol=cockroachdb \
  --uri=roach.example.com:26257 \
  --labels=env=dev
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}>
Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag at the address of your Teleport Cloud tenant, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh \
  --name=roach \
  --protocol=cockroachdb \
  --uri=roach.example.com:26257 \
  --labels=env=dev
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

<Admonition type="note">
  The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's proxy endpoint
  because the Database Service always connects back to the cluster over a reverse
  tunnel.
</Admonition>

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx).
</Admonition>

### Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 2/3. Configure CockroachDB

### Create a CockroachDB user

Teleport uses mutual TLS authentication with CockroachDB. Client certificate authentication is available to all CockroachDB users. If you
don't have one, connect to your Cockroach cluster and create it:

```sql
CREATE USER alice WITH PASSWORD NULL;
```

The `WITH PASSWORD NULL` clause prevents the user from using password auth and
mandates client certificate auth.

Make sure to assign the user proper permissions within the database cluster.
Refer to [Create User](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/create-user.html)
in Cockroach docs for more information.

### Set up mutual TLS

To set up mutual TLS authentication, you need to make sure that:

- Teleport trusts certificates presented by CockroachDB nodes.
- CockroachDB trusts client certificates signed by Teleport.

Generate the secrets by running the following `tctl` command against your
Teleport cluster:

```code
$ tctl auth sign \
    --format=cockroachdb \
    --host=roach.example.com \
    --out=/path/to/cockroach/certs/dir/ \
    --ttl=2190h
```

The command will produce 3 files: `ca.crt` with Teleport's certificate authority
and `node.crt` / `node.key` with the node's certificate and key. Do not rename
them as this is how CockroachDB expects them to be named. See [Node key and certificates](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.1/create-security-certificates-custom-ca#node-key-and-certificates)
for details.

Generate the secrets for each cluster node and make sure to use the hostname
Teleport will be using to connect to the nodes in the `--host` flag.

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can specify multiple comma-separated addresses e.g. `--host=roach,node-1,192.168.1.1`.
</Admonition>

Restart your CockroachDB nodes, passing them the directory with generated secrets
via the `--certs-dir` flag:

```code
$ cockroach start \
    --certs-dir=/path/to/cockroachdb/certs/dir/ \
    # other flags...
```

## Step 3/3. Connect

Log into your Teleport cluster. Your CockroachDB cluster should appear in the
list of available databases:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name  Description         Labels
# ----- ------------------- -------
# roach Example CockroachDB env=dev
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Cloud">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name  Description         Labels
# ----- ------------------- -------
# roach Example CockroachDB env=dev
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Fetch short-lived client certificate for it using `tsh db login` command:

```code
$ tsh db login roach
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database server:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice roach
```

Now connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect roach
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Either the `cockroach` or `psql` command-line client should be available in PATH
  in order to be able to connect.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
$ tsh db logout roach
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)
- [CockroachDB client authentication](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/authentication.html#client-authentication)

Commit message:

Edit Database Access guides for Cloud users
Edits made

- Some Prerequisites sections were either absent or required
  "Teleport," which I've clarified with a scoped Tabs component to
  indicate the appropriate client tools for each deployment type.
  Since we instruct users on deploying the Auth/Proxy later in the
  guide, I restricted this to client tools. Also flesh out the
  Prerequisites a bit in general.

- Add ScopedBlocks for minor details that vary between scopes.

- Ensure that all commands that take place on the Database Service node
  are described correctly as taking place on that node.

- Change the tctl-auth-sign.mdx partial. Since the start-auth-proxy.mdx
  partial now instructs self-hosted users to run tctl commands on the
  Auth Service host, we no longer need the Self-Hosted tab. As a result,
  I have turned the Cloud tab into a ScopedBlock.

- Reorder self-hosted guide sections so users start the Auth/Proxy
  before running "tctl auth sign". Otherwise, this command will not
  work.

- Minor style/grammar tweaks

docs/pages/database-access/guides/cockroachdb-self-hosted.mdx, after:

---
title: Database Access with Self-Hosted CockroachDB
description: How to configure Teleport Database Access with self-hosted CockroachDB.
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="8.0"
>
  CockroachDB support is available starting from Teleport `8.0`.
</Details>

This guide will help you to:

1. Install Teleport and connect it to a CockroachDB cluster.
2. Configure mutual TLS authentication between Teleport and your CockroachDB cluster.
3. Connect to your CockroachDB cluster via Teleport.

## Prerequisites

- CockroachDB cluster.

- A host, e.g., an Amazon EC2 instance, where you will run the Teleport Database
  Service.

(!docs/pages/includes/user-client-prereqs.mdx!)

(!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

## Step 1/3. Install and configure Teleport

### Set up the Teleport Auth and Proxy Services

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx!)

### Set up the Teleport Database Service

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/token.mdx!)
<Tabs>
<TabItem label="Self-Hosted" scope={["enterprise","oss"]}>
Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag to the address of your Teleport Proxy Service:

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=teleport.example.com:3080 \
  --name=roach \
  --protocol=cockroachdb \
  --uri=roach.example.com:26257 \
  --labels=env=dev
```

<Admonition type="note">
  The `--auth-server` flag must point to the Teleport cluster's Proxy Service endpoint
  because the Database Service always connects back to the cluster over a reverse
  tunnel.
</Admonition>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}>

Start the Teleport Database Service, pointing the `--auth-server` flag at the address of your Teleport Cloud tenant, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

```code
$ teleport db start \
  --token=/tmp/token \
  --auth-server=mytenant.teleport.sh \
  --name=roach \
  --protocol=cockroachdb \
  --uri=roach.example.com:26257 \
  --labels=env=dev
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


<Admonition type="tip">
  You can start the Database Service using a configuration file instead of CLI flags.
  See [YAML reference](../reference/configuration.mdx).
</Admonition>

### Create a Teleport user

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/create-user.mdx!)

## Step 2/3. Configure CockroachDB

### Create a CockroachDB user

Teleport uses mutual TLS authentication with CockroachDB. Client certificate authentication is available to all CockroachDB users. If you
don't have one, connect to your Cockroach cluster and create it:

```sql
CREATE USER alice WITH PASSWORD NULL;
```

The `WITH PASSWORD NULL` clause prevents the user from using password auth and
mandates client certificate auth.

Make sure to assign the user proper permissions within the database cluster.
Refer to [Create User](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/create-user.html)
in the CockroachDB documentation for more information.

### Set up mutual TLS

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/tctl-auth-sign.mdx!)

To set up mutual TLS authentication, you need to make sure that:

- Teleport trusts certificates presented by CockroachDB nodes.
- CockroachDB trusts client certificates signed by Teleport.

Generate the secrets by running the following `tctl` command against your
Teleport cluster:

```code
$ tctl auth sign \
    --format=cockroachdb \
    --host=roach.example.com \
    --out=/path/to/cockroach/certs/dir/ \
    --ttl=2190h
```

The command will produce 3 files: `ca.crt` with Teleport's certificate authority
and `node.crt` / `node.key` with the node's certificate and key. Do not rename
them as this is how CockroachDB expects them to be named. See [Node key and certificates](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/v21.1/create-security-certificates-custom-ca#node-key-and-certificates)
for details.

Generate the secrets for each cluster node and make sure to use the hostname
Teleport will be using to connect to the nodes in the `--host` flag.

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can specify multiple comma-separated addresses e.g. `--host=roach,node-1,192.168.1.1`.
</Admonition>

Restart your CockroachDB nodes, passing them the directory with generated secrets
via the `--certs-dir` flag:

```code
$ cockroach start \
    --certs-dir=/path/to/cockroachdb/certs/dir/ \
    # other flags...
```

## Step 3/3. Connect

Log in to your Teleport cluster. Your CockroachDB cluster should appear in the
list of available databases:

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["enterprise", "oss"]} label="Self-Hosted">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=teleport.example.com --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name  Description         Labels
# ----- ------------------- -------
# roach Example CockroachDB env=dev
```
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Cloud">
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh --user=alice
$ tsh db ls
# Name  Description         Labels
# ----- ------------------- -------
# roach Example CockroachDB env=dev
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Fetch short-lived client certificate for it using `tsh db login` command:

```code
$ tsh db login roach
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  You can be logged into multiple databases simultaneously.
</Admonition>

You can optionally specify the database name and the user to use by default
when connecting to the database server:

```code
$ tsh db login --db-user=alice roach
```

Now connect to the database:

```code
$ tsh db connect roach
```

<Admonition type="note">
  Either the `cockroach` or `psql` command-line client should be available in `PATH`
  in order to be able to connect.
</Admonition>

To log out of the database and remove credentials:

```code
$ tsh db logout roach
```

## Next steps

(!docs/pages/includes/database-access/guides-next-steps.mdx!)
- [CockroachDB client authentication](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/stable/authentication.html#client-authentication)
