docs/pages/setup/reference/networking.mdx, before:

---
title: Networking
description: Teleport ports and networking requirements
---

## Public address

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

All Teleport services (the Proxy Service, Auth Service, and Nodes) have an
optional `public_addr` property that you can modify in each service's
configuration file. The public address can take an IP or a DNS name. It can also
be a list of values:

```yaml
public_addr: ["proxy-one.example.com", "proxy-two.example.com"]
```

Specifying a public address for a Teleport service may be useful in the
following use cases:

- You have multiple identical services, like proxies, behind a load balancer.
- You want Teleport to issue an SSH certificate for the service with the additional
  principals, e.g., host names.
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

Teleport Nodes have an optional `public_addr` property that you can modify in
each service's configuration file. The public address can take an IP or a DNS
name. It can also be a list of values:

```yaml
public_addr: ["proxy-one.example.com", "proxy-two.example.com"]
```

Specifying a public address for a Teleport Node may be useful in the
following use cases:

- You have multiple identical services, like proxies, behind a load balancer.
- You want Teleport to issue an SSH certificate for the service with the additional
  principals, e.g., host names.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## HTTP CONNECT proxies

Some networks funnel all connections through a proxy server where they can be
audited and access control rules can be applied. For these scenarios, Teleport
supports HTTP CONNECT tunneling.

To use HTTP CONNECT tunneling, simply set either the `HTTPS_PROXY` or
`HTTP_PROXY` variables of the `teleport` daemon's shell environment. When the
daemon builds and establishes a reverse tunnel to the main cluster, it will
funnel all traffic through the selected proxy. 

If using the default configuration, Teleport will tunnel ports `3024` (SSH,
reverse tunnel) and `3080` (HTTPS, establishing trust) through the proxy.

The value of `HTTPS_PROXY` or `HTTP_PROXY` should be in the format
`scheme://host:port` where scheme is either `https` or `http` . If the value is
`host:port` , Teleport will prepend `http` .

It's important to note that for Teleport to use HTTP CONNECT
tunneling, the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables must be set
within Teleport's environment.

You can also optionally set the `NO_PROXY`
environment variable to avoid use of the proxy when accessing specified
hosts/netmasks. When launching Teleport with `systemd`, this will probably involve
adding some lines to your `systemd` unit file:

```
[Service]
Environment="HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080/"
Environment="HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080/"
Environment="NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12,10.0.0.0/8"
```

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
  `localhost` and `127.0.0.1` are invalid values for the proxy host. If for some reason your proxy runs locally, you'll need to provide some other DNS name or a private IP address for it.
</Admonition>

## Ports

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

Teleport services listen on several ports. This table shows the default port
numbers for each service.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  To get a listing of the assigned ports for an instance of the Teleport Proxy
  Service, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ curl https://teleport.example.com:443/webapi/ping | jq 
  ```

  Note that if `auth_service.proxy_listener_mode` is set to `multiplex` in your
  Teleport configuration, that means only a single port is used for
  multiple services through the Proxy.

</Admonition>

| Port | Service | Description |
| - | - | - |
| 3022 | Node | SSH port. This is Teleport's equivalent of port `#22` for SSH. |
| 3023 | Proxy | SSH port clients connect to. The Proxy Service will forward this connection to port `#3022` on the destination Node. |
| 3024 | Proxy | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server. |
| 3025 | Auth | SSH port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other Nodes in a cluster. |
| 3080 | Proxy | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Web UI. |
| 3026 | Kubernetes | HTTPS Kubernetes proxy `proxy_service.kube_listen_addr` |
| 3027 | Kubernetes | Kubernetes Service `kubernetes_service.listen_addr` |
| 3028 | Desktop | Desktop Service `windows_desktop_service.listen_addr` |
| 3036 | MySQL | MySQL port `proxy_service.mysql_addr` |
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

Teleport services listen on several ports. This table shows the default port
numbers for each service. The Teleport Proxy Service is the host available at your
Teleport Cloud tenant URL, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  To get a listing of the assigned ports for your Teleport Cloud tenant host,
  use the following command:

  ```code
  $ curl https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq 
  ```

</Admonition>

| Port | Service | Description |
| - | - | - |
| 3022 | Node | SSH port. This is Teleport's equivalent of port `#22` for SSH. |
| 3023 | Proxy | SSH port clients connect to. The Proxy Service will forward this connection to port `#3022` on the destination Node. |
| 3024 | Proxy | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server. |
| 3080 | Proxy | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Web UI. |
| 3026 | Kubernetes | HTTPS Kubernetes proxy `proxy_service.kube_listen_addr` |
| 3027 | Kubernetes | Kubernetes Service `kubernetes_service.listen_addr` |
| 3028 | Desktop | Desktop Service `windows_desktop_service.listen_addr` |
| 3036 | MySQL | MySQL port `proxy_service.mysql_addr` |
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Address PR feedback
- Imply that there are non-Auth/Proxy services beside Nodes
- Remove "shell" where it is unnecessary
- Revert the "HTTP CONNECT" section to where it was before this
  change. The copy-edits were inaccurate, but I don't have time
  to perform the edits agin more carefully.

docs/pages/setup/reference/networking.mdx, after:

---
title: Networking
description: Teleport ports and networking requirements
---

## Public address

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

All Teleport services (e.g., the Proxy Service, Auth Service, and Nodes) have an
optional `public_addr` property that you can modify in each service's
configuration file. The public address can take an IP or a DNS name. It can also
be a list of values:

```yaml
public_addr: ["proxy-one.example.com", "proxy-two.example.com"]
```

Specifying a public address for a Teleport service may be useful in the
following use cases:

- You have multiple identical services, e.g., Proxy Service instances, behind a
  load balancer.
- You want Teleport to issue an SSH certificate for the service with additional
  principals, e.g., host names.
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

All Teleport services (e.g., the Application Service and Database Service) have
an optional `public_addr` property that you can modify in each service's
configuration file. The public address can take an IP or a DNS name. It can also
be a list of values:

```yaml
public_addr: ["service-one.example.com", "service-two.example.com"]
```

Specifying a public address for a Teleport Node may be useful in the
following use cases:

- You have multiple identical services behind a load balancer.
- You want Teleport to issue an SSH certificate for the service with additional
  principals, e.g., host names.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>


## HTTP CONNECT proxies

Some networks funnel all connections through a proxy server where they can be
audited and access control rules are applied. For these scenarios, Teleport supports HTTP CONNECT tunneling.

To use HTTP CONNECT tunneling, simply set either the `HTTPS_PROXY` or `HTTP_PROXY` environment variables and when Teleport builds and establishes the reverse tunnel to the main cluster, it will funnel all traffic through the proxy. Specifically, if using the default configuration, Teleport will tunnel ports `3024` (SSH, reverse tunnel) and `3080` (HTTPS, establishing trust) through the proxy.

The value of `HTTPS_PROXY` or `HTTP_PROXY` should be in the format
`scheme://host:port` where scheme is either `https` or `http` . If the value is
`host:port` , Teleport will prepend `http` .

It's important to note that for Teleport to use HTTP CONNECT
tunneling, the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables must be set
within Teleport's environment. You can also optionally set the `NO_PROXY`
environment variable to avoid use of the proxy when accessing specified
hosts/netmasks. When launching Teleport with `systemd`, this will probably involve
adding some lines to your `systemd` unit file:

```
[Service]
Environment="HTTP_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080/"
Environment="HTTPS_PROXY=http://proxy.example.com:8080/"
Environment="NO_PROXY=localhost,127.0.0.1,192.168.0.0/16,172.16.0.0/12,10.0.0.0/8"
```

<Admonition
  type="warning"
  title="Note"
>
  `localhost` and `127.0.0.1` are invalid values for the proxy host. If for some reason your proxy runs locally, you'll need to provide some other DNS name or a private IP address for it.
</Admonition>

## Ports

<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["oss", "enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

Teleport services listen on several ports. This table shows the default port
numbers for each service.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  To get a listing of the assigned ports for an instance of the Teleport Proxy
  Service, use the following command:

  ```code
  $ curl https://teleport.example.com:443/webapi/ping | jq 
  ```

  Note that if `auth_service.proxy_listener_mode` is set to `multiplex` in your
  Teleport configuration, that means only a single port is used for
  multiple services through the Proxy.

</Admonition>

| Port | Service | Description |
| - | - | - |
| 3022 | Node | SSH port. This is Teleport's equivalent of port `#22` for SSH. |
| 3023 | Proxy | SSH port clients connect to. The Proxy Service will forward this connection to port `#3022` on the destination Node. |
| 3024 | Proxy | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server. |
| 3025 | Auth | SSH port used by the Auth Service to serve its API to other Nodes in a cluster. |
| 3080 | Proxy | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Web UI. |
| 3026 | Kubernetes | HTTPS Kubernetes proxy `proxy_service.kube_listen_addr` |
| 3027 | Kubernetes | Kubernetes Service `kubernetes_service.listen_addr` |
| 3028 | Desktop | Desktop Service `windows_desktop_service.listen_addr` |
| 3036 | MySQL | MySQL port `proxy_service.mysql_addr` |
</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["cloud"]} label="Teleport Cloud">

Teleport services listen on several ports. This table shows the default port
numbers for each service. The Teleport Proxy Service is the host available at your
Teleport Cloud tenant URL, e.g., `mytenant.teleport.sh`.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="Note"
>

  To get a listing of the assigned ports for your Teleport Cloud tenant host,
  use the following command:

  ```code
  $ curl https://mytenant.teleport.sh/webapi/ping | jq 
  ```

</Admonition>

| Port | Service | Description |
| - | - | - |
| 3022 | Node | SSH port. This is Teleport's equivalent of port `#22` for SSH. |
| 3023 | Proxy | SSH port clients connect to. The Proxy Service will forward this connection to port `#3022` on the destination Node. |
| 3024 | Proxy | SSH port used to create "reverse SSH tunnels" from behind-firewall environments into a trusted proxy server. |
| 3080 | Proxy | HTTPS connection to authenticate `tsh` users into the cluster. The same connection is used to serve a Web UI. |
| 3026 | Kubernetes | HTTPS Kubernetes proxy `proxy_service.kube_listen_addr` |
| 3027 | Kubernetes | Kubernetes Service `kubernetes_service.listen_addr` |
| 3028 | Desktop | Desktop Service `windows_desktop_service.listen_addr` |
| 3036 | MySQL | MySQL port `proxy_service.mysql_addr` |
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
