docs/pages/setup/operations/tls-routing.mdx, before:

---
title: TLS Routing Migration
description: How to upgrade exising Teleport cluster to a single-port TLS routing mode
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="8.0"
>
  TLS routing is available starting from Teleport `8.0`.
</Details>

Starting from version `8.0` Teleport supports TLS routing. In this mode, all
client connections are wrapped in TLS and multiplexed on one Teleport proxy
port.

TLS routing has multiple benefits compared to the deployment where each protocol
is served on a separate port:

- Simpler network policy configurations since all clients connect to Teleport
  proxy over a single port.
- Communication between any client and Teleport proxy is authenticated by
  mutual TLS.
- Users are able to tunnel protocols that may normally be blocked on the
  internal network like SSH.

Existing clusters upgraded to `8.0` will not utilize TLS routing by default and
keep working in backwards-compatibility mode. Follow this guide to migrate your
Teleport installation to TLS routing.

## Requirements

For TLS routing to work, Teleport proxy needs to terminate all client
connections.

Thus, it will not work with application load balancers (such as AWS ALB) or load
balancers that do TLS termination. Use plain TCP passthrough load balancers
(such as AWS NLB) to take advantage of TLS routing.

## Step 1/7. Upgrade to Teleport `8.0`

Download Teleport `8.0` or later from the [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download)
or your enterprise portal and follow the standard [upgrade procedure](./upgrading.mdx).
Make sure to upgrade both root and leaf clusters as well as `tsh` client.

Pre-8.0 cluster configurations are fully backwards compatible with TLS routing.
Existing trusted cluster and reverse tunnel agent connections won't be affected.

## Step 2/7. Enable proxy multiplexing

Update your root cluster auth server's configuration to set proxy listener mode
to "multiplex":

```yaml
auth_service:
  proxy_listener_mode: multiplex
```

This setting will indicate to the clients (such as `tsh` or reverse tunnel
agents) that they should connect to the web proxy port using TLS routing.

<Admonition type="note" title="Compatibility">
  Turning multiplexing on will not affect existing connections of trusted
  clusters, reverse tunnel agents and tsh/ssh clients. As long as the legacy
  listeners are enabled (see [step 7](#step-77-disable-legacy-listeners) below),
  all clients will keep connecting in the backwards compatibility mode until
  restarted or relogged in/reconfigured in case of tsh/ssh as described below.
</Admonition>

## Step 3/7. Reconnect trusted clusters

If you're already multiplexing trusted cluster connections on the web proxy port
(i.e. `web_listen_addr` and `tunnel_listen_addr` have the same port in your
proxy configuration), you can skip this step.

Otherwise, update your trusted clusters to point both `web_proxy_addr` and
`tunnel_addr` to the root cluster's web proxy address and recreate them:

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v2
metadata:
   name: "root"
spec:
   enabled: true
   web_proxy_addr: root.example.com:443
   tunnel_addr: root.example.com:443
   ...
```

## Step 4/7. Reconnect reverse tunnel agents

Restart all SSH, Kubernetes, application and database agents that connect to
the cluster's proxy over reverse tunnels.

This will make them reconnect to the cluster in TLS routing mode.

## Step 5/7. Relogin with tsh

Do `tsh logout` and log into the cluster with `tsh login` again to make sure
`tsh` starts using TLS routing mode.

## Step 6/7. Update OpenSSH config

If you're using OpenSSH client `ssh` with the config generated by `tsh config`
to connect to nodes within your Teleport cluster, you need to regenerate the
config.

Run `tsh config` command again so it generates SSH config compatible with SSH
routing setup. See [OpenSSH client](../../server-access/guides/openssh.mdx#use-openssh-client)
docs for reference.

## Step 7/7. Disable legacy listeners

At this point, all root cluster's clients connect to its web proxy port in TLS
routing mode. The final step is to instruct the Teleport proxy not to create
legacy listeners for SSH, reverse tunnels, Kubernetes and database clients by
default.

Add `version: v2` to your proxy's configuration and remove all listen addresses
except for `web_listen_addr`:

```yaml
version: v2
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
  ...
```

Config version `v2` will prevent other listeners from being created unless
they are explicitly set in the proxy service configuration.

## Rollback

To go back to the legacy separate listeners mode, perform the following steps:

1. Set `version: v1` in the proxy configuration and restart the proxy to make
   it create legacy listeners.
2. Set `proxy_listener_mode: separate` in auth service configuration to make
   clients connect to the legacy listeners.
3. Reconnect all clients (trusted clusters, reverse tunnel agents, `tsh`) as
   described above.
4. If using OpenSSH client, regenerate SSH config using `tsh config` command.

## Next steps

- Learn how TLS routing [works](../../architecture/tls-routing.mdx).

Commit message:

Prepare more Setup guides for Cloud users
TLS Routing Migration

  Added a compatibility note for Cloud users. Unfortunately there is
  nothing else we can do until we can come up with a way to adjust
  the visibility of whole pages based on the scope picker.

Running Teleport on GCP and IBM Cloud

  Both of these guides assume throughout that you are deploying the
  Auth Service, Proxy Service, and Auth Service storage backend. There
  is very little relevant information for Cloud users.

  Since making these guides relevant for Cloud users would require
  research and rewriting, which is out of scope for issue #10633, this
  change adds a Notice component to these guides explaining their
  relevance.

Reducing the Blast Radius

  This guide already includes instructions for Cloud users. This
  change includes the tctl.mdx partial to ensure that Cloud users
  know to log in first before running tctl commands.

Resources reference

- Add Tabs in the introduction where guidance differs for Cloud and
  Self-Hosted users.

- Include the tctl.mdx partial in the Introduction so users know how
  to connect to their Teleport cluster in order to perform tctl
  commands.

- Edit the introductory sections of the post for clarity and style.

  Note that this change does not attempt to fill in missing dynamic
  resource types within the reference list, as this would be outside
  the time I allotted to work on issue #10633.

CLI reference

- Add instructions for Cloud users via a Notice above the roles table
  and tabbed instructions above the tctl section.
- Add an entry for the Windows Desktop Service in the roles table.
- Perform some light copy editing, e.g., removing somewhat confusing
  links from H4 headings and making minor style tweaks. A comprehensive
  refresh of the CLI reference is out of scope of my work on issue
  #10633.

docs/pages/setup/operations/tls-routing.mdx, after:

---
title: TLS Routing Migration
description: How to upgrade an existing Teleport cluster to single-port TLS routing mode
---

<Details
  title="Version warning"
  opened={true}
  scope={["oss", "enterprise"]}
  scopeOnly={true}
  min="8.0"
>
  TLS routing is available starting from Teleport `8.0`.
</Details>

<Notice scope={["cloud"]} type="tip">

Teleport Cloud manages the Proxy Service's networking configuration for you. You
can read this guide for a better understanding of how the Teleport Proxy Service
works.

</Notice>

Starting from version `8.0` Teleport supports TLS routing. In this mode, all
client connections are wrapped in TLS and multiplexed on one Teleport proxy
port.

TLS routing has multiple benefits compared to the deployment where each protocol
is served on a separate port:

- Simpler network policy configurations since all clients connect to Teleport
  proxy over a single port.
- Communication between any client and Teleport proxy is authenticated by
  mutual TLS.
- Users are able to tunnel protocols that may normally be blocked on the
  internal network like SSH.

Existing clusters upgraded to `8.0` will not utilize TLS routing by default and
keep working in backwards-compatibility mode. Follow this guide to migrate your
Teleport installation to TLS routing.

## Requirements

For TLS routing to work, Teleport proxy needs to terminate all client
connections.

Thus, it will not work with application load balancers (such as AWS ALB) or load
balancers that do TLS termination. Use plain TCP passthrough load balancers
(such as AWS NLB) to take advantage of TLS routing.

## Step 1/7. Upgrade to Teleport `8.0`

Download Teleport `8.0` or later from the [downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download)
or your enterprise portal and follow the standard [upgrade procedure](./upgrading.mdx).
Make sure to upgrade both root and leaf clusters as well as `tsh` client.

Pre-8.0 cluster configurations are fully backwards compatible with TLS routing.
Existing trusted cluster and reverse tunnel agent connections won't be affected.

## Step 2/7. Enable proxy multiplexing

Update your root cluster auth server's configuration to set proxy listener mode
to "multiplex":

```yaml
auth_service:
  proxy_listener_mode: multiplex
```

This setting will indicate to the clients (such as `tsh` or reverse tunnel
agents) that they should connect to the web proxy port using TLS routing.

<Admonition type="note" title="Compatibility">
  Turning multiplexing on will not affect existing connections of trusted
  clusters, reverse tunnel agents and tsh/ssh clients. As long as the legacy
  listeners are enabled (see [step 7](#step-77-disable-legacy-listeners) below),
  all clients will keep connecting in the backwards compatibility mode until
  restarted or relogged in/reconfigured in case of tsh/ssh as described below.
</Admonition>

## Step 3/7. Reconnect trusted clusters

If you're already multiplexing trusted cluster connections on the web proxy port
(i.e. `web_listen_addr` and `tunnel_listen_addr` have the same port in your
proxy configuration), you can skip this step.

Otherwise, update your trusted clusters to point both `web_proxy_addr` and
`tunnel_addr` to the root cluster's web proxy address and recreate them:

```yaml
kind: trusted_cluster
version: v2
metadata:
   name: "root"
spec:
   enabled: true
   web_proxy_addr: root.example.com:443
   tunnel_addr: root.example.com:443
   ...
```

## Step 4/7. Reconnect reverse tunnel agents

Restart all SSH, Kubernetes, application and database agents that connect to
the cluster's proxy over reverse tunnels.

This will make them reconnect to the cluster in TLS routing mode.

## Step 5/7. Relogin with tsh

Do `tsh logout` and log into the cluster with `tsh login` again to make sure
`tsh` starts using TLS routing mode.

## Step 6/7. Update OpenSSH config

If you're using OpenSSH client `ssh` with the config generated by `tsh config`
to connect to nodes within your Teleport cluster, you need to regenerate the
config.

Run `tsh config` command again so it generates SSH config compatible with SSH
routing setup. See [OpenSSH client](../../server-access/guides/openssh.mdx#use-openssh-client)
docs for reference.

## Step 7/7. Disable legacy listeners

At this point, all root cluster's clients connect to its web proxy port in TLS
routing mode. The final step is to instruct the Teleport proxy not to create
legacy listeners for SSH, reverse tunnels, Kubernetes and database clients by
default.

Add `version: v2` to your proxy's configuration and remove all listen addresses
except for `web_listen_addr`:

```yaml
version: v2
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: 0.0.0.0:443
  ...
```

Config version `v2` will prevent other listeners from being created unless
they are explicitly set in the proxy service configuration.

## Rollback

To go back to the legacy separate listeners mode, perform the following steps:

1. Set `version: v1` in the proxy configuration and restart the proxy to make
   it create legacy listeners.
2. Set `proxy_listener_mode: separate` in auth service configuration to make
   clients connect to the legacy listeners.
3. Reconnect all clients (trusted clusters, reverse tunnel agents, `tsh`) as
   described above.
4. If using OpenSSH client, regenerate SSH config using `tsh config` command.

## Next steps

- Learn how TLS routing [works](../../architecture/tls-routing.mdx).
