docs/pages/setup/deployments/ibm.mdx, before:

---
title: Running Teleport on IBM Cloud
description: How to install and configure Gravitational Teleport on IBM cloud for SSH and Kubernetes access.
---

We've created this guide to give customers a high level overview of how to use Teleport
on the [IBM Cloud](https://www.ibm.com/cloud). This guide provides a high level
introduction leading to a deep dive into how to setup and run Teleport in production.

We have split this guide into:

- [Teleport on IBM FAQ](#teleport-on-ibm-cloud-faq)
- [IBM Teleport Introduction](#ibm-teleport-introduction)

## Teleport on IBM Cloud FAQ

### Why would you want to use Teleport with IBM Cloud?

Teleport provides privileged access management for cloud-native infrastructure that
doesn’t get in the way. Infosec and systems engineers can secure access to their
infrastructure, meet compliance requirements, reduce operational overhead, and have
complete visibility into access and behavior.

By using Teleport with IBM you can easily unify all access for both IBM Cloud and
Softlayer infrastructure.

### Which Services can I use Teleport with?

You can use Teleport for all the services that you would SSH into. This guide is
focused on IBM Cloud. 

We plan on expanding our guide to eventually include using Teleport with IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service.

## IBM Teleport Introduction

This guide will cover how to setup, configure and run Teleport on IBM Cloud.

IBM Services required to run Teleport in High Availability:

- [IBM Cloud: Virtual Servers with Instance Groups](#ibm-cloud-virtual-servers-with-instance-groups)
- [Storage: Database for etcd](#storage-database-for-etcd)
- [Storage: IBM Cloud File Storage](#storage-ibm-cloud-file-storage)
- [Network Services: Cloud DNS](#network-ibm-cloud-dns-services)

Other things needed:

- [SSL Certificate](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/ssl-certificates)

We recommend setting up Teleport in High Availability mode (HA). In High Availability mode [etcd](https://etcd.io/)
stores the state of the system and [IBM Cloud Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/storage)
stores the audit logs.

![GCP Intro Image](../../../img/IBM/IBM_HA.svg)

### IBM Cloud: Virtual Servers with Instance Groups

We recommend Gen 2 Cloud IBM [Virtual Servers](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/virtual-servers) and [Auto Scaling](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vpc?topic=vpc-faqs-auto-scale)

- For Staging and POCs we recommend using `bx2-2x8` machines with 2 vCPUs, 4GB RAM, 4 Gbps.
- For Production we would recommend `cx2-4x8` with 4 vCPUs, 8 GB RAM, 8 Gbps.

### Storage: Database for etcd

IBM offers [managed etcd](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/databases-for-etcd) instances.
Teleport uses etcd as a scalable database to maintain High Availability and provide 
graceful restarts. The service has to be turned on from within the [IBM Cloud Dashboard](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/databases-for-etcd).

We recommend picking an etcd instance in the same region as your planned Teleport
cluster.

- Deployment region: Same as rest of Teleport Cluster
- Initial Memory allocation: 2GB/member (6GB total)
- Initial disk allocation: 20GB/member (60GB total)
- CPU allocation: Shared
- etcd version: 3.3

![Creating IBM Server](../../../img/IBM/cloud.ibm.com_catalog_services_databases-for-etcd.png)

#### Saving Credentials

![Creating IBM Server](../../../img/IBM/etcd-pass.png)
![etcd cert and host](../../../img/IBM/etcd-cert-and-host.png)

```yaml
teleport:
  storage:
    type: etcd
    # list of etcd peers to connect to:
    # Showing IBM example host and port.
    peers: ["https://a9e977c0-224a-40bb-af51-21893b8fde79.b2b5a92ee2df47d58bad0fa448c15585.databases.appdomain.cloud:30359"]
    # optional password based authentication
    # See https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4.0/op-guide/authentication/ for setting
    # up a new user. IBM Defaults to `root`
    username: 'root'
    # The password file should just contain the password.
    password_file: '/var/lib/etcd-pass'
    # TLS certificate Name, with file contents from Overview
    tls_ca_file: '/var/lib/teleport/797cfsdf23e-4027-11e9-a020-42025ffb08c8.pem'
    # etcd key (location) where teleport will be storing its state under.
    # make sure it ends with a '/'!
    prefix: '/teleport/'
```

### Storage: IBM Cloud File Storage

We recommend using [IBM Cloud File Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/file-storage) to store Teleport recorded sessions.

1. Create New File Storage Resource. [IBM Catalog - File Storage Quick Link](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/infrastructure/file-storage)

   1a. We recommend using `Standard`

2. Create a new bucket.

3. Setup [HMAC Credentials](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-uhc-hmac-credentials-main)

4. Update audit sessions URI: `audit_sessions_uri: 's3://BUCKET-NAME/readonly/records?endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud&region=ibm'`

When setting up `audit_sessions_uri` use `s3://` session prefix.

The credentials are used from `~/.aws/credentials` and should be created with HMAC option:

![Creating Service Creds](../../../img/IBM/cloud.ibm.com_object-store-service-creds.png)

```json
{
  "apikey": "LU9VCDf4dDzj1wjt0Q-BHaa2VEM7I53_3lPff50d_uv3",
  "cos_hmac_keys": {
    "access_key_id": "e668d66374e141668ef0089f43bc879e",
    "secret_access_key": "d8762b57f61d5dd524ccd49c7d44861ceab098d217d05836"
  },
  "endpoints": "https://control.cloud-object-storage.cloud.ibm.com/v2/endpoints",
  "iam_apikey_description": "Auto-generated for key e668d663-74e1-4166-8ef0-089f43bc879e",
  "iam_apikey_name": "Service credentials-1",
  "iam_role_crn": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:iam::::serviceRole:Writer",
  "iam_serviceid_crn": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:iam-identity::a/0328d127d04047548c9d4bedcd24b85e::serviceid:ServiceId-c7ee0ee9-ea74-467f-a49e-ef60f6b27a71",
  "resource_instance_id": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/0328d127d04047548c9d4bedcd24b85e:32049c3c-207e-4731-8b8a-53bf3b4844e7::"
}
```

Save these settings to `~/.aws/credentials`

```yaml
# Example keys from example service account to be saved into ~/.aws/credentials
[default]
access_key_id="e668d66374e141668e3432443bc879e"
secret_access_key="d8762b57f61d5dd524ccd49c7d44861ceafdsfds37d05836"
```

Example `/etc/teleport.yaml`

```yaml
...
storage:
    ...
    # Note
    #
    # endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud | This URL will
    # differ depending on which region the bucket is created. Use the  public
    # endpoints.
    #
    # region=ibm | Should always be set as IBM.
    audit_sessions_uri: 's3://BUCKETNAME/readonly/records?endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud&region=ibm'
    ...
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  When starting with `teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml -d` you can confirm that the
  bucket has been created.
</Admonition>

```code
$ teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml -d
# DEBU [SQLITE]    Connected to: file:/var/lib/teleport/proc/sqlite.db?_busy_timeout=10000&_sync=OFF, poll stream period: 1s lite/lite.go:173
# DEBU [SQLITE]    Synchronous: 0, busy timeout: 10000 lite/lite.go:220
# DEBU [KEYGEN]    SSH cert authority is going to pre-compute 25 keys. native/native.go:104
# DEBU [PROC:1]    Using etcd backend. service/service.go:2309
# INFO [S3]        Setting up bucket "ben-teleport-test-cos-standard-b98", sessions path "/readonly/records" in region "ibm". s3sessions/s3handler.go:143
# INFO [S3]        Setup bucket "ben-teleport-test-cos-standard-b98" completed. duration:356.958618ms s3sessions/s3handler.go:147
```

### Network: IBM Cloud DNS Services

We recommend using [IBM Cloud DNS](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/dns-services) for
the Teleport Proxy public address.

```yaml
    # The DNS name the proxy HTTPS endpoint as accessible by cluster users.
    # Defaults to the proxy's hostname if not specified. If running multiple
    # proxies behind a load balancer, this name must point to the load balancer
    # (see public_addr section below)
    public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
```

Commit message:

Prepare more Setup guides for Cloud users
TLS Routing Migration

  Added a compatibility note for Cloud users. Unfortunately there is
  nothing else we can do until we can come up with a way to adjust
  the visibility of whole pages based on the scope picker.

Running Teleport on GCP and IBM Cloud

  Both of these guides assume throughout that you are deploying the
  Auth Service, Proxy Service, and Auth Service storage backend. There
  is very little relevant information for Cloud users.

  Since making these guides relevant for Cloud users would require
  research and rewriting, which is out of scope for issue #10633, this
  change adds a Notice component to these guides explaining their
  relevance.

Reducing the Blast Radius

  This guide already includes instructions for Cloud users. This
  change includes the tctl.mdx partial to ensure that Cloud users
  know to log in first before running tctl commands.

Resources reference

- Add Tabs in the introduction where guidance differs for Cloud and
  Self-Hosted users.

- Include the tctl.mdx partial in the Introduction so users know how
  to connect to their Teleport cluster in order to perform tctl
  commands.

- Edit the introductory sections of the post for clarity and style.

  Note that this change does not attempt to fill in missing dynamic
  resource types within the reference list, as this would be outside
  the time I allotted to work on issue #10633.

CLI reference

- Add instructions for Cloud users via a Notice above the roles table
  and tabbed instructions above the tctl section.
- Add an entry for the Windows Desktop Service in the roles table.
- Perform some light copy editing, e.g., removing somewhat confusing
  links from H4 headings and making minor style tweaks. A comprehensive
  refresh of the CLI reference is out of scope of my work on issue
  #10633.

docs/pages/setup/deployments/ibm.mdx, after:

---
title: Running Teleport on IBM Cloud
description: How to install and configure Gravitational Teleport on IBM cloud for SSH and Kubernetes access.
---

We've created this guide to give customers a high level overview of how to use Teleport
on the [IBM Cloud](https://www.ibm.com/cloud). This guide provides a high level
introduction leading to a deep dive into how to setup and run Teleport in production.

<Notice type="warning" scope={["cloud"]}>

This guide shows you how to deploy the Auth Service and Proxy Service, which
Teleport Cloud manages for you. You can read this guide if you are interested in
learning about self-hosting Teleport on IBM Cloud.

</Notice>

We have split this guide into:

- [Teleport on IBM FAQ](#teleport-on-ibm-cloud-faq)
- [IBM Teleport Introduction](#ibm-teleport-introduction)

## Teleport on IBM Cloud FAQ

### Why would you want to use Teleport with IBM Cloud?

Teleport provides privileged access management for cloud-native infrastructure that
doesn’t get in the way. Infosec and systems engineers can secure access to their
infrastructure, meet compliance requirements, reduce operational overhead, and have
complete visibility into access and behavior.

By using Teleport with IBM you can easily unify all access for both IBM Cloud and
Softlayer infrastructure.

### Which Services can I use Teleport with?

You can use Teleport for all the services that you would SSH into. This guide is
focused on IBM Cloud. 

We plan on expanding our guide to eventually include using Teleport with IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service.

## IBM Teleport Introduction

This guide will cover how to setup, configure and run Teleport on IBM Cloud.

IBM Services required to run Teleport in High Availability:

- [IBM Cloud: Virtual Servers with Instance Groups](#ibm-cloud-virtual-servers-with-instance-groups)
- [Storage: Database for etcd](#storage-database-for-etcd)
- [Storage: IBM Cloud File Storage](#storage-ibm-cloud-file-storage)
- [Network Services: Cloud DNS](#network-ibm-cloud-dns-services)

Other things needed:

- [SSL Certificate](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/ssl-certificates)

We recommend setting up Teleport in High Availability mode (HA). In High Availability mode [etcd](https://etcd.io/)
stores the state of the system and [IBM Cloud Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/storage)
stores the audit logs.

![GCP Intro Image](../../../img/IBM/IBM_HA.svg)

### IBM Cloud: Virtual Servers with Instance Groups

We recommend Gen 2 Cloud IBM [Virtual Servers](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/virtual-servers) and [Auto Scaling](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vpc?topic=vpc-faqs-auto-scale)

- For Staging and POCs we recommend using `bx2-2x8` machines with 2 vCPUs, 4GB RAM, 4 Gbps.
- For Production we would recommend `cx2-4x8` with 4 vCPUs, 8 GB RAM, 8 Gbps.

### Storage: Database for etcd

IBM offers [managed etcd](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/databases-for-etcd) instances.
Teleport uses etcd as a scalable database to maintain High Availability and provide 
graceful restarts. The service has to be turned on from within the [IBM Cloud Dashboard](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/databases-for-etcd).

We recommend picking an etcd instance in the same region as your planned Teleport
cluster.

- Deployment region: Same as rest of Teleport Cluster
- Initial Memory allocation: 2GB/member (6GB total)
- Initial disk allocation: 20GB/member (60GB total)
- CPU allocation: Shared
- etcd version: 3.3

![Creating IBM Server](../../../img/IBM/cloud.ibm.com_catalog_services_databases-for-etcd.png)

#### Saving Credentials

![Creating IBM Server](../../../img/IBM/etcd-pass.png)
![etcd cert and host](../../../img/IBM/etcd-cert-and-host.png)

```yaml
teleport:
  storage:
    type: etcd
    # list of etcd peers to connect to:
    # Showing IBM example host and port.
    peers: ["https://a9e977c0-224a-40bb-af51-21893b8fde79.b2b5a92ee2df47d58bad0fa448c15585.databases.appdomain.cloud:30359"]
    # optional password based authentication
    # See https://etcd.io/docs/v3.4.0/op-guide/authentication/ for setting
    # up a new user. IBM Defaults to `root`
    username: 'root'
    # The password file should just contain the password.
    password_file: '/var/lib/etcd-pass'
    # TLS certificate Name, with file contents from Overview
    tls_ca_file: '/var/lib/teleport/797cfsdf23e-4027-11e9-a020-42025ffb08c8.pem'
    # etcd key (location) where teleport will be storing its state under.
    # make sure it ends with a '/'!
    prefix: '/teleport/'
```

### Storage: IBM Cloud File Storage

We recommend using [IBM Cloud File Storage](https://www.ibm.com/cloud/file-storage) to store Teleport recorded sessions.

1. Create New File Storage Resource. [IBM Catalog - File Storage Quick Link](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/infrastructure/file-storage)

   1a. We recommend using `Standard`

2. Create a new bucket.

3. Setup [HMAC Credentials](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cloud-object-storage?topic=cloud-object-storage-uhc-hmac-credentials-main)

4. Update audit sessions URI: `audit_sessions_uri: 's3://BUCKET-NAME/readonly/records?endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud&region=ibm'`

When setting up `audit_sessions_uri` use `s3://` session prefix.

The credentials are used from `~/.aws/credentials` and should be created with HMAC option:

![Creating Service Creds](../../../img/IBM/cloud.ibm.com_object-store-service-creds.png)

```json
{
  "apikey": "LU9VCDf4dDzj1wjt0Q-BHaa2VEM7I53_3lPff50d_uv3",
  "cos_hmac_keys": {
    "access_key_id": "e668d66374e141668ef0089f43bc879e",
    "secret_access_key": "d8762b57f61d5dd524ccd49c7d44861ceab098d217d05836"
  },
  "endpoints": "https://control.cloud-object-storage.cloud.ibm.com/v2/endpoints",
  "iam_apikey_description": "Auto-generated for key e668d663-74e1-4166-8ef0-089f43bc879e",
  "iam_apikey_name": "Service credentials-1",
  "iam_role_crn": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:iam::::serviceRole:Writer",
  "iam_serviceid_crn": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:iam-identity::a/0328d127d04047548c9d4bedcd24b85e::serviceid:ServiceId-c7ee0ee9-ea74-467f-a49e-ef60f6b27a71",
  "resource_instance_id": "crn:v1:bluemix:public:cloud-object-storage:global:a/0328d127d04047548c9d4bedcd24b85e:32049c3c-207e-4731-8b8a-53bf3b4844e7::"
}
```

Save these settings to `~/.aws/credentials`

```yaml
# Example keys from example service account to be saved into ~/.aws/credentials
[default]
access_key_id="e668d66374e141668e3432443bc879e"
secret_access_key="d8762b57f61d5dd524ccd49c7d44861ceafdsfds37d05836"
```

Example `/etc/teleport.yaml`

```yaml
...
storage:
    ...
    # Note
    #
    # endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud | This URL will
    # differ depending on which region the bucket is created. Use the  public
    # endpoints.
    #
    # region=ibm | Should always be set as IBM.
    audit_sessions_uri: 's3://BUCKETNAME/readonly/records?endpoint=s3.us-east.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud&region=ibm'
    ...
```

<Admonition type="tip">
  When starting with `teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml -d` you can confirm that the
  bucket has been created.
</Admonition>

```code
$ teleport start --config=/etc/teleport.yaml -d
# DEBU [SQLITE]    Connected to: file:/var/lib/teleport/proc/sqlite.db?_busy_timeout=10000&_sync=OFF, poll stream period: 1s lite/lite.go:173
# DEBU [SQLITE]    Synchronous: 0, busy timeout: 10000 lite/lite.go:220
# DEBU [KEYGEN]    SSH cert authority is going to pre-compute 25 keys. native/native.go:104
# DEBU [PROC:1]    Using etcd backend. service/service.go:2309
# INFO [S3]        Setting up bucket "ben-teleport-test-cos-standard-b98", sessions path "/readonly/records" in region "ibm". s3sessions/s3handler.go:143
# INFO [S3]        Setup bucket "ben-teleport-test-cos-standard-b98" completed. duration:356.958618ms s3sessions/s3handler.go:147
```

### Network: IBM Cloud DNS Services

We recommend using [IBM Cloud DNS](https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/services/dns-services) for
the Teleport Proxy public address.

```yaml
    # The DNS name the proxy HTTPS endpoint as accessible by cluster users.
    # Defaults to the proxy's hostname if not specified. If running multiple
    # proxies behind a load balancer, this name must point to the load balancer
    # (see public_addr section below)
    public_addr: proxy.example.com:3080
```
