docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx, before:

<Tabs> 
<TabItem scope={["oss","enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">
Download the latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) and follow the
installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one
automatically using Let's Encrypt's ACME protocol. Before Let's Encrypt can
issue a TLS certificate for the Teleport Proxy host's domain, the ACME protocol
must verify that an HTTPS server is reachable on port 443 of the host.  

You can configure the Teleport Proxy service to complete the Let's Encrypt
verification process when it starts up.

Run the following `teleport configure` command, where `tele.example.com` is the
domain name of your Teleport cluster and `user@example.com` is an email address
used for notifications (you can use any domain):

```code
teleport configure --acme --acme-email=user@example.com --cluster-name=tele.example.com > /etc/teleport.yaml
```

The `--acme`, `--acme-email`, and `--cluster-name` flags will add the following
settings to your Teleport configuration file:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: :443
  public_addr: tele.example.com:443
  acme:
    enabled: "yes"
    email: user@example.com
```

Port 443 on your Teleport Proxy Service host must allow traffic from all sources.

Next, start the Teleport Auth and Proxy Services:

```code
$ sudo teleport start
```
</TabItem> 
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}> 
If you do not have a Teleport Cloud account, use our [signup form](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to
get started. Teleport Cloud manages instances of the Proxy Service and Auth
Service, and automatically issues and renews the required TLS certificate.

You must log into your cluster before you can run `tctl` commands.
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Edit Database Access guides for Cloud users
Edits made

- Some Prerequisites sections were either absent or required
  "Teleport," which I've clarified with a scoped Tabs component to
  indicate the appropriate client tools for each deployment type.
  Since we instruct users on deploying the Auth/Proxy later in the
  guide, I restricted this to client tools. Also flesh out the
  Prerequisites a bit in general.

- Add ScopedBlocks for minor details that vary between scopes.

- Ensure that all commands that take place on the Database Service node
  are described correctly as taking place on that node.

- Change the tctl-auth-sign.mdx partial. Since the start-auth-proxy.mdx
  partial now instructs self-hosted users to run tctl commands on the
  Auth Service host, we no longer need the Self-Hosted tab. As a result,
  I have turned the Cloud tab into a ScopedBlock.

- Reorder self-hosted guide sections so users start the Auth/Proxy
  before running "tctl auth sign". Otherwise, this command will not
  work.

- Minor style/grammar tweaks

docs/pages/includes/database-access/start-auth-proxy.mdx, after:

<Tabs> 
<TabItem scope={["oss","enterprise"]} label="Self-Hosted">

On the host where you will run the Auth Service and Proxy Service, download the
latest version of Teleport for your platform from our
[downloads page](https://goteleport.com/teleport/download) and follow the
installation [instructions](../../installation.mdx).

Teleport requires a valid TLS certificate to operate and can fetch one
automatically using Let's Encrypt's ACME protocol. Before Let's Encrypt can
issue a TLS certificate for the Teleport Proxy host's domain, the ACME protocol
must verify that an HTTPS server is reachable on port 443 of the host.  

You can configure the Teleport Proxy service to complete the Let's Encrypt
verification process when it starts up.

Run the following `teleport configure` command, where `tele.example.com` is the
domain name of your Teleport cluster and `user@example.com` is an email address
used for notifications (you can use any domain):

```code
teleport configure --acme --acme-email=user@example.com --cluster-name=tele.example.com > /etc/teleport.yaml
```

The `--acme`, `--acme-email`, and `--cluster-name` flags will add the following
settings to your Teleport configuration file:

```yaml
proxy_service:
  enabled: "yes"
  web_listen_addr: :443
  public_addr: tele.example.com:443
  acme:
    enabled: "yes"
    email: user@example.com
```

Port 443 on your Teleport Proxy Service host must allow traffic from all sources.

Next, start the Teleport Auth and Proxy Services:

```code
$ sudo teleport start
```

You will run subsequent `tctl` commands on the host where you started the Auth
and Proxy Services.

</TabItem> 
<TabItem label="Teleport Cloud" scope={["cloud"]}> 
If you do not have a Teleport Cloud account, use our [signup form](https://goteleport.com/signup/) to
get started. Teleport Cloud manages instances of the Proxy Service and Auth
Service, and automatically issues and renews the required TLS certificate.

You must log in to your cluster before you can run `tctl` commands.
```code
$ tsh login --proxy=mytenant.teleport.sh
$ tctl status
```
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
