docs/pages/setup/admin/graceful-restarts.mdx, before:

---
title: Graceful Restarts
description: Graceful restarts of Teleport.
---

## Signals

You can send signals to a Teleport daemon to get diagnostic or gracefully shut it down:

| Signal | Teleport Daemon Behavior |
| - | - |
| `USR1` | Dumps diagnostics/debugging information into syslog. |
| `QUIT`| Graceful shutdown. The daemon will wait until connections are dropped. |
| `TERM` , `INT` or `KILL` | Immediate non-graceful shutdown. All existing connections will be dropped. |
| `USR2` | Forks a new Teleport daemon to serve new connections. |
| `HUP` | Forks a new Teleport daemon to serve new connections **and** initiates the graceful shutdown of the existing process when there are no more clients connected to it. |

## Graceful upgrades

In this guide we will try a manual graceful
upgrade of a binary and a rollback using signals.

Locate a running teleport daemon PID:

```code
# Locate teleport process PID
$ pidof teleport
235119
```

Unpack a new binary and replace a binary without stopping a server.
Preserve the old binary, just in case if the upgrade goes wrong.

```code
$ mv /usr/bin/teleport /usr/bin/teleport.bak
$ cp /new/binary/teleport /usr/bin/teleport
```

Fork a new teleport process:

```code
$ kill -USR2 $(pidof teleport)
```

The original teleport process forked a new child process and passed existing file descriptors
to the child. You now have two processes handling requests on the same socket:

```code
$ pidof teleport
# 235276 235119
```

In our example, `235276` is a PID of the child process, and `235119` is a PID of the parent.

In the logs you will see that the parent process reports that it has forked a new child
process, and the child accepts file descriptors from it's parent.

```txt
2021-08-19T10:16:51-07:00 [PROC:1]  INFO Forked new child process. path:/usr/local/teleport service/signals.go:457
2021-08-19T10:16:51-07:00 [PROC:1]  INFO Using file descriptor diag 127.0.0.1:3434 passed by the parent process. service/signals.go:207
```

Examine the logs and use the system. You have two options:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Rollback">
  If the new binary behaves with errors, shut down the child process:
  ```code
  $ kill -TERM 235276
  ```
  <Admonition
  type="danger"
  title="WARNING"
  >
    Do not forget to restore the original binary
    ```code
    $ mv /usr/bin/teleport.bak /usr/bin/teleport
    ```
  </Admonition>
    
  You can retry the process again later.
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Finish the upgrade">
    <Admonition
     type="danger"
     title="WARNING"
     >
     If you are upgrading the Teleport using SSH connection using Teleport,
     make sure to re-establish a new connection to the new teleport instance and launch shut down from it.
     You can always see which node process handles the connection by using `pstree`:

    ```code
    $ pstree -aps $$
    # systemd,1 splash
    #  └─systemd,6247 --user
    #      └─teleport-,235276
    #          └─bash,190718
    #              └─pstree,242371 -aps 190718
    ```
    </Admonition>
     
    Shut down the parent process gracefully using `SIGQUIT`:

    ```code
    $ kill -QUIT 235119
    ```

    The parent process will log graceful shutdown:

    ```txt
    2021-08-19T10:32:10-07:00 INFO [PROXY:SER] Shutting down gracefully. service/service.go:2952
    ```

    In a couple of minutes all existing connections drain off and the parent will exit:

    ```code
    $ pidof teleport
    # 235276
    ```
    
    If for some reason, the parent process gets stuck, for example waiting on existing connections to finish,
    you can shut it down non-gracefully:

    ```code
    $ kill -TERM 235119
    ```

    You are all set.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Edit four docs guides for Cloud users
See #10633

Labels

- Turn the Prerequisites into a Tabs box for different editions.
  This means that users of one edition will not need to see
  information intended for users of another edition.

- Add misc. clarity, grammar, and style edits.

Local Users

- Use Tabs for the Prerequisites so users of one edition don't see
  information for another edition
- SSO was briefly mentioned without elaboration, so I added this to a
  Further Reading section with scoped tabs
- Use Tabs for Proxy connection instructions

Troubleshooting

- Add a note re: the relevance of the guide for Cloud users
- Add Tabs for the Getting help section so commercial or OSS users
  don't see irrelevant information
- General clarity, grammar, and style tweaks

Graceful Restarts

- Add a notice indicating how this guide is relevant for Cloud users
- Misc clarity, grammar, and style tweaks

docs/pages/setup/admin/graceful-restarts.mdx, after:

---
title: Graceful Restarts
description: Graceful restarts of Teleport.
---

<Notice scope={["cloud"]} type="tip">

These instructions apply to `teleport` processes running on Teleport Nodes. In
Teleport Cloud, the Auth and Proxy Services are monitored and managed for you.

</Notice>

## Signals

You can send signals to a `teleport` process to get diagnostic information or
gracefully shut it down:

| Signal | Teleport Daemon Behavior |
| - | - |
| `USR1` | Dumps diagnostics/debugging information into syslog. |
| `QUIT`| Graceful shutdown. The daemon will wait until connections are dropped. |
| `TERM` , `INT` or `KILL` | Immediate non-graceful shutdown. All existing connections will be dropped. |
| `USR2` | Forks a new Teleport daemon to serve new connections. |
| `HUP` | Forks a new Teleport daemon to serve new connections **and** initiates the graceful shutdown of the existing process when there are no more clients connected to it. |

## Graceful upgrades

In this guide we will try a manual graceful
upgrade of a binary and a rollback using signals.

Locate a running teleport daemon PID:

```code
# Locate teleport process PID
$ pidof teleport
235119
```

Unpack a new binary and replace a binary without stopping a `teleport` process.
Preserve the old binary, just in case the upgrade goes wrong.

```code
$ mv /usr/bin/teleport /usr/bin/teleport.bak
$ cp /new/binary/teleport /usr/bin/teleport
```

Fork a new `teleport` process:

```code
$ kill -USR2 $(pidof teleport)
```

The original `teleport` process forked a new child process and passed existing file descriptors
to the child. You now have two processes handling requests on the same socket:

```code
$ pidof teleport
# 235276 235119
```

In our example, `235276` is a PID of the child process, and `235119` is a PID of the parent.

In the logs you will see that the parent process reports that it has forked a new child
process, and the child accepts file descriptors from its parent.

```txt
2021-08-19T10:16:51-07:00 [PROC:1]  INFO Forked new child process. path:/usr/local/teleport service/signals.go:457
2021-08-19T10:16:51-07:00 [PROC:1]  INFO Using file descriptor diag 127.0.0.1:3434 passed by the parent process. service/signals.go:207
```

Examine the logs and use the system. You have two options:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Rollback">
  If the new binary behaves with errors, shut down the child process:
  ```code
  $ kill -TERM 235276
  ```
  <Admonition
  type="danger"
  title="WARNING"
  >
    Do not forget to restore the original binary
    ```code
    $ mv /usr/bin/teleport.bak /usr/bin/teleport
    ```
  </Admonition>
    
  You can retry the process again later.
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem label="Finish the upgrade">
    <Admonition
     type="danger"
     title="WARNING"
     >

    If you are upgrading a `teleport` daemon using an SSH connection established
    via Teleport, make sure to connect to the newly upgraded `teleport` process
    and shut down the previous `teleport` process from it.
    
    You can see which `teleport` process handles the connection by using
    `pstree`:

    ```code
    $ pstree -aps $$
    # systemd,1 splash
    #  └─systemd,6247 --user
    #      └─teleport-,235276
    #          └─bash,190718
    #              └─pstree,242371 -aps 190718
    ```
    </Admonition>
     
    Shut down the parent process gracefully using `SIGQUIT`:

    ```code
    $ kill -QUIT 235119
    ```

    The parent process will log a graceful shutdown:

    ```txt
    2021-08-19T10:32:10-07:00 INFO [PROXY:SER] Shutting down gracefully. service/service.go:2952
    ```

    In a couple of minutes, all existing connections drain off and the parent will exit:

    ```code
    $ pidof teleport
    # 235276
    ```
    
    If for some reason, the parent process gets stuck (e.g., waiting for
    existing connections to finish), you can shut it down non-gracefully:

    ```code
    $ kill -TERM 235119
    ```

    You are all set.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
