docs/pages/setup/admin/troubleshooting.mdx, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting and Collecting Metrics of Teleport Processes
---

## Troubleshooting

To diagnose problems you can configure [`teleport`](../reference/cli.mdx#teleport) to
run with verbose logging enabled by passing it `-d` flag.

<Admonition
  type="tip"
  title="NOTE"
>
  It is not recommended to run Teleport in production with verbose logging as it generates a substantial amount of data.
</Admonition>

Sometimes you may want to reset [`teleport`](../reference/cli.mdx#teleport) to a
clean state. This can be accomplished by erasing everything under the `data_dir`
directory, which defaults to `/var/lib/teleport/`.

## Debug dump

You can get a goroutine dump of a running process by sending it `USR1` signal.

Locate a running teleport daemon PID:

```code
# Locate teleport process PID
$ pidof teleport
235119
```

Send a `USR1` signal to teleport process:

```code
$ kill -USR1 $(pidof teleport)
```

Teleport will print the debug information to `stderr`. Here what you will see in the logs:

```txt
INFO [PROC:1]    Got signal "user defined signal 1", logging diagnostic info to stderr. service/signals.go:99
Runtime stats
goroutines: 84
...
Goroutines
goroutine 1 [running]:
runtime/pprof.writeGoroutineStacks(0x3c2ffc0, 0xc0001a8010, 0xc001011a38, 0x4bcfb3)
	/usr/local/go/src/runtime/pprof/pprof.go:693 +0x9f
...
```

## Getting help

If you need help, please ask on our [community forum](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/discussions). You can also open an [issue on Github](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues).

For commercial support, you can create a ticket through the [customer dashboard](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

For more information about custom features, or to try our [Enterprise edition](../../enterprise/introduction.mdx) of Teleport, please reach out to us at [sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/).

Commit message:

Edit four docs guides for Cloud users
See #10633

Labels

- Turn the Prerequisites into a Tabs box for different editions.
  This means that users of one edition will not need to see
  information intended for users of another edition.

- Add misc. clarity, grammar, and style edits.

Local Users

- Use Tabs for the Prerequisites so users of one edition don't see
  information for another edition
- SSO was briefly mentioned without elaboration, so I added this to a
  Further Reading section with scoped tabs
- Use Tabs for Proxy connection instructions

Troubleshooting

- Add a note re: the relevance of the guide for Cloud users
- Add Tabs for the Getting help section so commercial or OSS users
  don't see irrelevant information
- General clarity, grammar, and style tweaks

Graceful Restarts

- Add a notice indicating how this guide is relevant for Cloud users
- Misc clarity, grammar, and style tweaks

docs/pages/setup/admin/troubleshooting.mdx, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting and Collecting Metrics of Teleport Processes
---
<Notice scope={["cloud"]} type="tip">

These instructions apply to `teleport` processes running on your own
infrastructure in order to access specific resources. In Teleport Cloud, the
Auth and Proxy Services are monitored and managed for you.

</Notice>

## Troubleshooting

To diagnose problems you can configure the `teleport` process to run with
verbose logging enabled by passing it the `-d` flag.

<Notice
  type="warning"
>
  It is not recommended to run Teleport in production with verbose logging as it generates a substantial amount of data.
</Notice>

Sometimes you may want to reset [`teleport`](../reference/cli.mdx#teleport) to a
clean state. This can be accomplished by erasing everything under the `data_dir`
directory, which defaults to `/var/lib/teleport/`.

## Debug dump

You can get a goroutine dump of a running `teleport` process by sending it
`USR1` signal.

Locate a running `teleport` daemon PID:

```code
# Locate teleport process PID
$ pidof teleport
235119
```

Send a `USR1` signal to a `teleport` process:

```code
$ kill -USR1 $(pidof teleport)
```

Teleport will print the debug information to `stderr`. Here what you will see in
the logs:

```txt
INFO [PROC:1]    Got signal "user defined signal 1", logging diagnostic info to stderr. service/signals.go:99
Runtime stats
goroutines: 84
...
Goroutines
goroutine 1 [running]:
runtime/pprof.writeGoroutineStacks(0x3c2ffc0, 0xc0001a8010, 0xc001011a38, 0x4bcfb3)
	/usr/local/go/src/runtime/pprof/pprof.go:693 +0x9f
...
```

## Getting help
<Tabs>
<TabItem scope={["cloud", "enterprise"]} label="Commercial">
If you need help, please ask on our [community forum](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/discussions). You can also open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues) or create a ticket through the [customer dashboard](https://dashboard.gravitational.com/web/login).

</TabItem>
<TabItem scope={["oss"]} label="Open Source">
If you need help, please ask on our [community forum](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/discussions). You can also open an [issue on GitHub](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues).

For more information about custom features, or to try our [Enterprise edition](../../enterprise/introduction.mdx) of Teleport, please reach out to us at [sales](https://goteleport.com/signup/enterprise/).
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
